"lawful money" - which can be exchanged for gold, silver, or any other commodity 
"legal tender" - declared legal by govt, also u can pay debts, bills etc but u can’t exchange
It for any Gold or any other commodity 
Facts:
Currency is based on Gold
Gold Valuation remains the same 
It’s the currency whose value appreciates or   depreciates
Gold price is increasing  implies => currency is depreciating
Gold price is decreasing implies => currency is appreciating 
Whenever system fails gold will rise(2008 financial crisis, 2019 covid, banking frauds)


Why Gold has such high importance/extremely popular -  Chemical inertness and rare properties
Why Gold has such high value - high cost of production + extremely popular 
Multiple Usages - exchange medium, jewellery and investment
Medium of exchange - .Gold is the logical choice for this exchange. If disaster strikes, such that paper money and the system that supports it no longer exists, we will revert to gold. which means that gold will always have value in tough as well as good times.
	Gold doesn't corrode unlike iron and can be melted over a flame, making it easy to work with and stamp as a coin.The metal is abundant enough to create coins but rare enough so that not everyone can produce them. 
If we choose a metal which is abundantly available like iron then every one can extract iron and become rich but the overall assets/production in a country will be zero.which will make the country poor and citizens die of hunger, like in case of Zimbabwe where currency has no value because of over printing and no corresponding assets/production in the country.
Jewellery - lustrous (gold's physical quality of absorbing light makes its special shine come literally from within itself), non-reactive qualities
	Why lustrous? The atoms in gold are actually heavier than in silver and other metals. This attribute makes the electrons move faster, which in turn allows for some of the light to be absorbed into the gold
Other qualities - relative scarcity, and the difficulty of extraction 


How is the gold price decided? 
Price of Gold is not set by any organization, but it depends upon the cost of producing it (extracting it from the ground and then purifying it) and how people are willing to pay for it. Gold, unlike many other metals, is relatively expensive to produce, thus making the base price fairly high. If a lot of people wish to use gold and are looking to buy it, they will have to compete with each other for it, which will ultimately result in a price rise. If not there is not much demand for gold, the price will be near the actual cost of production. Aluminium is a lot more commonly found in the earth's crust than gold, thus it is cheaper to produce.


Why gold  price will increase over the years ?
1)lack of trust on govt/system
2)Fiat currency - 
If people lose faith in a nation's currency, the money will no longer hold value. That differs from currency backed by gold, for example; it has intrinsic value because of the demand for gold in jewellery and decoration etc.
//more about Fiat money
Fiat money is government-issued currency that is not backed by a physical commodity, such as gold or silver, but rather by the government that issued it. The value of fiat money is derived from the  the stability of the issuing government, rather than the worth of a commodity backing it as is the case for commodity money.
Unlike commodity money Fiat money is inconvertible and cannot be redeemed.
3)inflation - time value of money(money value decreases) =>  inflation increase => currency devaluation => gold price increase(as gold price is determined interms of dollar)
4)no faith in USD -  Most modern paper currencies are fiat currencies, including the U.S. dollar, the euro, and other major global currencies
5)china and other countries are planning to launch digital currency backed by gold


Gold vs NIFTY 
Over the past 40 yrs
Gold returns are very less compared to NIFTY returns.
Gold should not be considered as an investment rather it should be used as a hedge against inflation.
Also since it is a currency it’s earnings are 0