//Why companies Acquire other companies?
1)Strategic -  to augument their current businesses
  become monopoly - facebook
  forward or backward integration - most chemical companies does that
  take control on supplychain - reliance retail
  increase geographical presence - 
   for superior R&D , workforce, process or technology of acquired companies 
2)Diversification - to get into other businesses (reliance, SRF etc)
3)Investment - purely on a investment basis where companies deploy cash to acquire companies 
     that can generate even more cash (berkshire, infoedge)


//Reverse merging
merge a smaller company in to a bigger company like ICICI Group merged with ICICI Bank


//Different kinds of acquisition
1)All stock deal:
Acquiring company replaces all the shares of acquired company with its own shares. 
  All the finacial statements of acquired company gets merged with the financial statements of acquiring company.
  Acquiring company should make sure this synergy works and net income increases else EPS takes a hit (as the total number of 
  shares have now increased)
  Also to reduce the impact of no of shares - company can buyback shares during market crash in the future (even taking debt is ok 
   if it can be serviced)
postive for acquired company shareholders as they don't have to pay tax and also they got shares of acquiring company but in the 
  short term they don't get any cash.

  Note: All stock deal only makes sense when stock price is high , as we need to create only few shares as the price is high
2)All cash deal:
Acquiring company WILL NOT replace all the shares of acquired company with its own shares. Rather it uses cash to buy majority of 
  the shares from the company by fixing price per share.
  Acquired company financial statements will not be merged in to the acquiring company financial statements but they will be part
  of consolidated financial statements. (if it is not 100% acquired - i.e only promoter shares have been acquired)
  if 100% acquired all the finacial statements of acquired company gets merged with the financial statements of acquiring company.
Acquired company might/might not be delisted based on Acquired company's call. 
  Acquired company shareholders will get cash in exchange for their shares and they have to pay capital gains tax.
  If it gets delisted they will announce a delisting price.
  if it doesn't get delisted and your current minority shareholders don't sell their shares then they will continue as the 
  shareholders even after the acquisition

  Note: cash deal makes sense if you have a lot of cash on balance sheet, take debt if there is no cash, stock price crashed
3)Stock + Cash deal: combination of both the above strategies


