------------------------- Desired Qualities ------------------------- 
highly critical products to customers - which improves the customer end product quality or reduce cost
since B2B products are cost to customer - they should always be < 3-5% of the overall costs otherwise
  the end customers always try to switch to cheaper alternatives or try doing things in-house
Successful B2B firms devote a lot of time, effort and capital towards both product and process innovations
mostly focussed on the small niches within a much larger market
Most of the Successful B2B products are consumables

-- Growth and market leadership
Growth is often achieved through successful innovations and expansion into new markets.
Market leadership is driven not by aggressive pricing but through superior performance, innovation, quality and reputation.

-- Market and focus
“The dependence on their market makes hidden champions ferocious defenders and great innovators”
Hidden Champions typically define their market narrowly. For example, La Opala for instance has deliberately focused on the 
  niche Opalware crockery market rather than much large crockery market in India in general.
Once they have selected a market, the Hidden Champions show a strong and lasting commitment to it.
Focus on the core business enables hidden champions to track their market closely and defend their positions to evolving customer 
  needs and technological developments.

-- Innovation
“Innovation is one of the key pillars on which the market leadership of the hidden champions is base.”
Innovation applies to not only to technology and products but more so to business processes.
Further, process innovations are not just restricted to cost reduction but also applied in regard to quality, faster development 
  cycles and thus help in in delivering higher value to the customers.
Top management generally plays a key role in driving innovation. This involvement is not only in the initial and early phases 
 of a Hidden Champion’s life but throughout the lifecycle of the company. For example, in almost every single company highlighted 
  in the table on the first page of this note, the promoter continues to play a central role in driving innovation and R&D.

-- Customer orientation
Hidden Champions may be little known to the general public, but they are well-known in their industry and enjoy a strong reputation amongst their customers.

-- Hidden Champions strongly outsource non-core competencies. This is less for cost reasons than to derive higher quality from specialised suppliers.

-- Hidden champions ensure that they have more work than people. This condition minimises unproductive activity and proves to be 
an extremely effective productivity driver.

-- The leaders of Hidden Champions are fearless. As entrepreneurs, their personal fortunes are often inseparably tied to the 
   success of their companies: if their companies fail, they stand to lose everything

-- The leadership continuity of Hidden Champions is much stronger than that for large corporations, with leaders staying at the 
  helm for 20 years or more.

-- Hidden Champion leaders often spend their entire lives, or at least decades, with a single company. Thus, the plans and goals
  implemented by the leaders of Hidden Champions are often shaped by extremely long-term strategic thinking

------------------ Can niche focus restrict longer term growth? -----------------
A question arises that would focus on a narrow market together with a high market share may act as limiting factor for long term 
growth. Hidden champions, as per Simon’s findings, have often overcome this challenge through the following routes:

1) Globalisation (can also apply to expansion into new states in the Indian context):
Globalisation not only makes even the narrow markets large, it further contributes to growth in profits through economies of scale.
The foundation for the success of this strategy is that customers in the same industry tend to have similar needs across countries. 
Hence, it is better to expand regionally in a narrowly defined market than to enter different markets in the same region. 
Hidden Champions prefer their own subsidiaries for global business than entering a tie-up or alliance with a foreign partner. 
For e.g: Symphony has preferred to acquire air cooler manufacturers as far afield as USA and Australia rather than entering tie-ups.

2) Soft diversification:
Particularly over the last two decades, diversification has been increasingly been employed by Hidden Champions to keep the 
flame of growth glowing. Besides the growth objective, better exploitation of existing competencies and know-how are another 
important motive for diversification. But wouldn’t diversification raise the risk that the Hidden Champion’s focus may be lost? 
To overcome this risk, Hidden Champions employ ‘soft diversification’ where new units stay close to the traditional business, 
both in terms of technology and market. Further, new business units are organised and managed like hidden Champions.


-------------------------  Sectors having highest ROCE in B2B ------------------------- 
Healthcare, IT, Light Industrials, Chemicals 


-------------------------  Companies To Avoid ------------------------- 
MOATs acquired by regulations - tomorrow govt can decide to lift them
Order book acquired by bidding 
Limiter number of customers