US stocks to invest: My picks
1)Global Monopolies
2)High growth businesses
3)stay away from dividend stocks because of high tax rate


//All about investing in US Stocks:
https://vested.co.in/blog/how-to-invest-in-the-us-stock-market-from-india/
** Investing in US stocks or ETFs by Indian investors is permissible under the RBI’s Liberalized Remittance Scheme (LRS)
1)Tax:
--Taxes on investment gains: You will be taxed in India for this gain
STCG: Less than 24 months, Income tax slab rate (+ surcharge and cess)
LTCG: More than 24 months @ 20% + indexation benefit (same as debt funds in india)
for ETFs the period is 36 months and for stocks as mentioned it is 24 months
--Taxes on dividends: Unlike investment gains, dividends will be taxed in the US at a flat rate of 25%.
For e.g: if Microsoft gives an investor $100 of dividend, it will withhold $25 as tax, and will give the investor 
the post tax dividend of $75. Subsequently, this post tax dividend is included as taxable income in India (as normal income).
Fortunately, US and India have a Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA), which allows taxpayers to offset income tax already
 paid in the US. The 25% tax you already paid in the US is made available as Foreign Tax Credit and can be used to offset your 
 income tax payable in India.
2)you are allowed to invest up to US $250,000 per year per person (roughly 2cr)
Once the remittance amount exceeds 5 lakh rupees per person per year u need to submit form 15CA
3)Convert INR to USD - GST of 0.18% is charged 
i.e 180rs for every 1lakh deposited
4)USD to INR - $11 withdrawal in vested
in Ind Money if the withdrawl amount exceeds $2000 it is free
Note: Both Vested and Ind money are investment advisory firms, hence they never keep ur cash/Stocks with them
Its either the broker that keeps both the USD cash and the securities.
5)What if he runs with the money/goes bankrupt? - Insurance covers for us
we are Insured up to $250k(cash) and up to $250k(securities), i.e total $500k under SIPC Act
6)Buy fractional shares unlike india 
Note: But keep more money in India as india's growth will be much higher, however Global monopolies and growth companies 
 can give you significant returns over longterm


//US Brokers authentication check 
https://www.sipc.org/list-of-members/C  - must register as it provides insurance to investors in the case of brokerage firm failure
https://brokercheck.finra.org/ - must be a member of FINRA as well, FINRA is an independent, non-governmental regulator for all
    securities firms doing business with the public in the United States. They are authorized by govt to protect America’s investors
    by making sure the securities industry operates fairly and honestly.


//Reasons for investing in US/Global markets
1)Most of the Global monopolies are in the US and one of the best growing companies are in China
2)US is the biggest economy with 21 trillion$ GDP and china is second biggest which has the potential to become 1st
3)Rupee depreciation that will happen for India to grow , will put more return on top of the actual returns
4)correlation: hardly there is any correlation between US, China and Indian Stock markets
5)Diversification


//Indexes
S&P 500: tracks the performance of the 500 largest US companies by market capitalization. In the year 2019, the S&P 500 surged more than 28%, which is the highest increase since 2013.
Dow Jones Industrial Average: tracks the performance of 30 large US companies trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the NASDAQ. In 2019, the Dow Jones gained 22% for the year.
Nasdaq Composite Index: tracks over 2,500 securities listed on the NASDAQ. In 2019, the Nasdaq Composite Index broke through the 9,000 level for the first time ever.


//ETFs and Index funds - 4
1)Vanguard Small-Cap Growth Index Fund
2)VanEck Vectors Semiconductor ETF (only top 25 semiconductor companies where 75% composition is : 
Taiwan semiconductors/ASML/AMD/Intel/Qualcomm/Nvidia/Broadcomm/TexasInstruments/analogDevices/Applied Materials)
3)VanEck Vectors Environmental Services ETF - optional
4)Vanguard Health Care Index Fund ETF (symbol: VHT)(50% composition is: United health group/Johnson&Johnson/Nerck/Pfizer/Abbvie etc)
United health group - largest insurance company by net premiums in US + health care products


//Tech - 15 (Dad)
Alphabet(GOOGL)
Facebook (wtsapp, Instagram, Linkedin) - meta platform
Amazon - vertically integrated (website, warehouse,shipping, delivery)
Netflix - largest media and entertainment company by marketcap + 40% content producted inhouse
Mongo DB
Microsoft (Linkedin, Github, Lynda)
Alibaba - asset lite model (excellent managemnt + rapid share buyback is happening)
          strong consumer confidence, expanding beyond chinese markets
          Amazon of China
          $15.5 billion over the next five years for social causes. Considering the company's $3.2 billion in free cash flow this past quarter, this is a significant figure. 
          had a down quarter since last 10 quarters(because of tax increase from 12 to 24%)
          Alibaba owns a third of Ant Group, and the blocking of its IPO is a value-destructive event leading to stock price crash
          China economy is undergoing significant structural changes and it is expected to be down for next couple of years
Adobe - develops software tools primarily for audio-visual(graphics, photography, illustration, animation, multimedia/video,
        motion pictures) content creation, editing and publishing.
Accenture - IT services and consulting. current clients : 91 of the Fortune Global 100 and more than 3/4 of the Fortune Global 500
Teledyne technologies - leading provider of sophisticated instrumentation, digital imaging products and software, aerospace and
  defense electronics, and engineered systems.
synopsys - software tools for emulating and testing electronic components integration
           Synopsys has expanded its products and services to include application security testing
cadence design - software tools for emulating and testing electronic components integration
Autodesk - provides 3D design, engineering, and entertainment software and services worldwide for by architects, project managers, 
  engineers, graphic designers, city planners and other professionals. 
  It was supported by 750 training centers worldwide with world wide presence
  Empowering innovators with design-and-make technology, so that they can achieve the new possible also enables them to build and manufacture efficiently and sustainably. 
  Proxy play to Infrastructure development in the US and Manufacturing hub in China
Lockheed Martin Corporation - a security and aerospace company
Palo Alto Networks - American multinational cybersecurity companyserves over 70,000 organizations in over 150 countries, 
      including 85 of the Fortune 100.former Google and SoftBank executive Nikesh Arora joined the company as Chairman and CEO.
UIpath - robotic process automation (where all the high volume,repetettive and boring tasks are automated, which gives room for 
  employees to focus on more strategic work hence improving productivity,cost saving and efficiency for company)


//Food - 7 (Dad)
Domino's Pizza
McDonald
Yum Brands(KFC, Pizzahut, Taco bell)
Yum china
Papa Johns
Cococola	
Pepsico


//Finance - 20 (pallavi)
Visa 
Mastercard
Moody’s
S&P Global
ICE - owner of NYSE stock exchange
CME - world’s largest financial derivatives exchange
Nasdaq - first electronic exchange in the world
Coinbase - 2nd largest crypto exchange by volume
MorningStar - mutual fund rating agency, research and investment advices
Berkshire Hathaway - largest financial services company by revenue in the world + conglomerate
Interactive Brokers Group Inc - clients from 200+ countries and territories invest globally and the largest full service broker in US
  ICICI direct works with this broker.IBKR is the top pick for active traders and anyone who wants access to international markets.
The Charles Schwab Corporation - largest discount broker in the US, 3rd largest asset manager in the world, behind BlackRock and Vanguard.
  Charles Schwab is a good pick for casual investors and beginners.
Blackrock - AMC with largest AUM in the US and in the world, with foot in Europe and China. 
  BlackRock operates globally with 70 offices in 30 countries and clients in 100 countries
  Largest provider of ETFs in the world by the name of ishares
BlackStone - largest AIF(Alternative investment fund) in the US - investing private equity, funding startups, venture capitalist etc
KKR & Co -   private equity and real estate investment firm specializes in acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, management buyouts, credit special situations
Carlyle Group - Global Private Equity, Global Credit, and Investment Solutions.
JP Morgan chase - largest bank in the United States, the world's largest bank by market capitalization
Bank of America -  second Largest bank in America
wells fargo - 3rd Largest bank in America
Royal bank of Canada - largest bank in Canada


//Life Style - 20  (Brother)
Apple
Renew Energy Global PLC,(RNW) - largest renewable nergy in india(sector analysis must)
Activision Blizzard - video games (deep wiki readout as company employees are leaving)
Live Nation Entertainment - operates as a live entertainment company. It operates through Concerts, Ticketing, and Sponsorship & Advertising segments
Airbnb - asset light business model - vacation rentals all over the world
Booking Holdings Inc - It operates websites in about 40 languages and 200 countries.
    owns and operates several travel fare aggregators and travel fare metasearch engines including namesake and flagship Booking.com
    In 2017, 89% of its gross profit was made outside the United States– most of which used Booking.com
    In 2017, 93.4% of revenues were derived from commissions and 6.6% of revenues were derived from advertising.
Expedia Group - operates several travel fare aggregators and travel fare metasearch engines including Expedia.com, Vrbo, Hotels.com,
    Hotwire.com, Orbitz, Travelocity, trivago and CarRentals.com
spotify - industry leader in music streaming with worldwide presence
Tencent Music Entertainment Group - (keep any eye for now)
Walt disney - media and entertainment
Sony - media and entertainment
WWE - World Wrestling Entertainment 
PVH - owns brands such as Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein, Warner's, Olga and True & Co.. The company also licenses brands such as
    Kenneth Cole New York and Michael Kors
Nike - biggest Sportswear company in the world
Lululemon Athletica - exclusive yoga apparel
Columbia Sportswear Company - sports wear
Altria
Procter and Gamble
Royal Caribbean cruises - world's second-largest cruise line operator
Carnival Corporation - Tourism and experiences, largest cruise vacation company in the world


//Life style and Misc - 12 - people mostly not interested in paying premium
Comcast Corporation - media and technology company worldwide
Caesars Entertainment - largest casino-entertainment company in the U.S. and one of the world's most diversified casino-entertainment providers.
  operates as a gaming and hospitality company in the United States. The company operates casinos, including poker, keno, and race 
  and online sportsbooks; dining venues, bars, nightclubs, and lounges; hotels; and entertainment venues.
SeaWorld Entertainment - portfolio of 12 destination and regional theme parks that are grouped in key markets across the United States, many of which showcase its one-of-a-kind zoological collection. 
  The Company is one of the world's foremost zoological organizations and a global leader in animal welfare, training, husbandry and veterinary care.
united parcel service - UPS is the largest courier company in the world by revenue, best known for its ground delivery service
Fedex - Fedex is best known for its air delivery service
Walmart
Kroger
Target
Restoration Hardware Holdings(RH) - is a luxury brand in the home furnishings marketplace, offering product assortments across a 
   number of categories, including furniture, lighting, textiles, bathware etc
floor and decor holdings
The Home Depot - operates as a home improvement retailer. It operates The Home Depot stores that sell various building materials, 
 home improvement products, building materials, lawn and garden products, and décor products
Marriott International - operates, franchises, and licenses hotel, residential, and timeshare properties worldwide.
  operated approximately 7,800 properties under 30 hotel brands in 138 countries and territories
Albemarle Corporation - develops, manufactures, and markets engineered specialty chemicals worldwide. It operates through three
  segments: Lithium(electrical vehicles), Bromine Specialties, and Catalysts. 
  second-largest lithium miner in the world
  Albemarle, as of 2020, was the largest provider of lithium for electric vehicle batteries.
https://piedmontlithium.com/about/ - integrated player in lithium industry