
//The story of US dollar ascending the throne
phase1:
Before world war 1 Britain pound was the reserve and trusted currency as it was the largest economy and hub for world commerce. 
Also all the currencies were pegged to gold. during world war 1 people needed money to meet military expenses hence the gold standard
was abandoned  and every country started printing currency including Britain which lead to the currency devaluation and ultimate 
lose of trust in pound. By that time US already emerged as the biggest economy.

Phase2:
United States served as the Allies’ main proprietor of weapons, supplies, and other goods. Collecting much of its payment in gold, 
by the end of the war, the United States owned the vast majority of the world’s gold. This precluded a return to the gold standard 
by all of the countries that had depleted their gold reserves.
Now all the countries felt a need for stable global currency as most of them ran out of gold
Bretton Woods agreement: to maintain stable currency It was decided follow fixed exchange rate regime where  the world’s currencies 
couldn’t be linked to gold, but they could be linked to the U.S. dollar, which was in turn linked to gold. 
U.S dollar was officially crowned the world’s reserve currency and was backed by the world’s largest gold reserves.

Phase 3:
After some time With growing concerns over the stability of the dollar, the countries began to convert dollar reserves into gold. 
The demand for gold was such that US President has to intervene and de-link the dollar from gold, which led to the floating exchange 
rates that exist today.


//Why is dollar still globally accepted even though dollar is delinked from gold?
The global acceptance of these currencies depends on the economic size and strength of the country.
Summary:The reserve status is based largely on the size and strength of the U.S. economy and the dominance of the U.S. financial markets.
Despite large deficit spending, trillions of dollars in debt, and the unbridled printing of U.S. dollars, U.S. Treasury securities
remain the safest store of money. The trust and confidence that the world has in the ability of the United States to pay its debts 
have kept the dollar as the most redeemable currency for facilitating world commerce.

1. USA is the biggest economy in the world, also value of US dollar don’t fluctuate often bcoz of steady GDP growth,
 low inflation and high employment rate in US.
2.Most trading countries of the world accept payment in dollar only. That's why foreign banks and countries need dollar 
to participate in international trade also central bank holds most of the reserves in USD.
3. As per the rule of the IMF every member country has to deposit certain percentage of their quota in the US dollars,
 which ultimately increases the demand of the dollar internationally.
4. If two Non-American countries also trade with each other, they prefer to take US dollars in payment because they know that 
if they have dollars in their hands, they can import goods from any other country any time.
5 America is the world's biggest economy, due to which it lends many poorer countries in the US dollar and receives the 
repayment in the same currency that is why the demand of dollar in the international market exists throughout the year.
6. The US contributes the most in the treasures of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund that is why
 US regulates the functioning of these institutions. So these two world institutions lend money to its members in the US dollar, 
 which further increases the faith of the lenders in the US dollar.
