//Exchange rates
* Floating exchange rate is determined by the currency/forex market through global supply and demand.central bank/govt of a country has a very less intervention here .
* Fixed/pegged rate  - government (central bank) sets and maintains as the official exchange rate.
* In order to maintain the local exchange rate, the central bank buys and sells its own currency on the foreign exchange market in return for the currency to which it is pegged.Also the central bank must keep a high level of forex reserves to sell in the forex market if needed.
* The reasons to peg a currency are linked to stability. Especially in today's developing nations, a country may decide to peg its currency to create a stable atmosphere for foreign investment.


Floating exchange rate regime:
Currency Strength is based on :
1)Internal factors - can be regulated by RBI like money supply, inflation, interest rates
2)external factor(most important factor) - not in govt/RBI hand
Depends on global demand and supply of USD in forex market
biggest factor that determine the strength of a currency is trade deficit. The bigger is the deficit the weaker a currency will become compared to USD.
Advantages of currency depreciation/weak currency:
Exports Become Profitable and Imports Become Expensive => Domestic Demand Increases => companies make profit, individuals 
 income increases => demand increases => GDP grows
When inflation is low, and GDP is growing at a reasonable pace, it is a sign of healthy economy. Foreign investors like to 
invest in such an economy. They will buy government bonds, stocks, real estate etc. This activity creates more demand for local 
currency (USD comes in to exchange INR). Increase demand for currency (say INR) will strengthen it.
Disadvantage: inflation if GDP growth is very high (explained in short term debt cycles below)
Should an economy aim for stronger currency? Immediate effect of currency becoming stronger is disadvantageous. But over long term, 
a strong currency does more benefits to its domestic economy.
Advantages of currency appreciation/strong currency:
Cheaper Imports: buy quality products and services from overseas countries at lower costs. More profits for businesses and more income for individuals 
Low Inflation: Due to cheaper (but quality) imported goods and services available for citizens, inflation remains low & within control at all times.
High Purchasing Power: Lavish life for the citizens
High Currency Demand: can become a potential “global currency” in times to come
Cheap Debt: countries and financial orgs will continue to buy the bonds even if the rates are low. Why? Because they just park their
 funds in strong currency (like USD). As the currency is in high demand, on a later date, the same currency will fetch higher returns
 as exchange rate becomes high.
PS: strength of currency is not a real reflection of the economic well being of a nation. Along with strength of a currency, other 
 factors like GDP growth rate, high employment rate, low inflation is needed.

