https://www.elastic.co/what-is/elasticsearch

//features:
The distributed nature of Elasticsearch allows it to scale out to hundreds (or even thousands) of servers and handle petabytes of data.
open source and free - paid subscriptions for support, advanced features such as alerting and machine learning.
centrally stores your data for lightning fast search(real time) and autocompletion
Full-text search is performed seamlessly - also it supports 34 text languages, from Arabic to Thai, and provides analyzers for each.
document oriented - schema less
stores data as JSON documents
handles all types of data, including textual, numerical, geospatial, structured, and unstructured
Elasticsearch provides a comprehensive and powerful set of REST APIs for performing tasks such as checking cluster health, 
  performing CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) and search operations against indices, and executing advanced search operations 
  such as filtering and aggregations.


//ELK stack
Elasticsearch is the central component of the Elastic Stack, a set of free and open tools for data ingestion, enrichment,
 storage, analysis, and visualization
Logstash is an open source, server-side data processing pipeline that enables you to ingest data from multiple sources 
 simultaneously and enrich and transform it before it is indexed into Elasticsearch
Kibana is a data visualization and management tool for Elasticsearch that provides real-time histograms, line graphs, pie charts, and maps.

//use cases:
Application search
Website search
Enterprise search
Logging and log analytics
Infrastructure metrics and container monitoring
Application performance monitoring
Geospatial data analysis and visualization
Security analytics - prevent, detect, hunt for and respond to threats
Business analytics

//How does Elasticsearch work?
Raw data flows into Elasticsearch from a variety of sources, including logs, system metrics, and web applications.
Data ingestion is the process by which this raw data is parsed, normalized, and enriched before it is indexed in Elasticsearch. 
Once indexed in Elasticsearch, users can run complex queries against their data and use aggregations to retrieve complex 
 summaries of their data.

Indexing:
An Elasticsearch index is a collection of documents that are related to each other.
Elasticsearch uses a data structure called an inverted index, which is designed to allow very fast full-text searches. 
An inverted index lists every unique word that appears in any document and identifies all of the documents each word occurs in.
During the indexing process, Elasticsearch stores documents and builds an inverted index to make the document data searchable 
in near real-time.
Indexing is initiated with the index API, through which you can add or update a JSON document in a specific index.