

//super risky segments - as they are unpredictable
BlackStone - largest AIF(Alternative investment fund) in the US - investing private equity, funding startups, venture capitalist etc
Interactive Brokers Group Inc - clients from 200+ countries and territories invest globally and the largest full service broker in US
  ICICI direct works with this broker.IBKR is the top pick for active traders and anyone who wants access to international markets.
The Charles Schwab Corporation - largest discount broker in the US, 3rd largest asset manager in the world, behind BlackRock and Vanguard.
  Charles Schwab is a good pick for casual investors and beginners.
Blackrock - AMC with largest AUM in the US and in the world, with foot in Europe and China. 
  BlackRock operates globally with 70 offices in 30 countries and clients in 100 countries
  Largest provider of ETFs in the world by the name of ishares
KKR & Co -   private equity and real estate investment firm specializes in acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, management buyouts, credit special situations
Apollo Global Management, Inc - private equity firm specializing investments in credit, private equity and real estate markets. 
Carlyle Group - Global Private Equity, Global Credit, and Investment Solutions.
MorningStar - mutual fund rating agency, research and investment advices
MSCI - together with its subsidiaries, provides investment decision support tools for the clients to manage their investment
  processes worldwide. The company operates through Index, Analytics, and All Other segments.
FACTSET RESEARCH SYSTEMS - The company delivers insight and information through the workflow solutions of research, analytics and
  trading, content and technology solutions, and wealth. It serves portfolio managers, investment banks, asset managers, wealth 
  advisors, corporate clients, and other financial services entities.

Airbnb - asset light business model - vacation rentals all over the world
Booking Holdings Inc - It operates websites in about 40 languages and 200 countries.
    owns and operates several travel fare aggregators and travel fare metasearch engines including namesake and flagship Booking.com
    In 2017, 89% of its gross profit was made outside the United States– most of which used Booking.com
    In 2017, 93.4% of revenues were derived from commissions and 6.6% of revenues were derived from advertising.
Expedia Group - operates several travel fare aggregators and travel fare metasearch engines including Expedia.com, Vrbo, Hotels.com,
    Hotwire.com, Orbitz, Travelocity, trivago and CarRentals.com
Spotify - industry leader in music streaming with worldwide presence
WWE - World Wrestling Entertainment 
Live Nation Entertainment - operates as a live entertainment company. It operates through Concerts, Ticketing, and Sponsorship & Advertising segments
Lucid - replacement to TESLA? under observation

