Overall: 
Ur Ranking: 
CRISIL: 

------------- About -------------
A niche jewellery exporter, with full backward-integration capabilities
Strong balance sheet with zero net debt; working capital cycle improving
Goldiam derives 75 per cent of revenues from big retailers while the rest is derived from wholesalers. 
Further, 90 per cent revenues are derived from the US and the rest from Europe.


-------- why to buy and hold? Business Strengths ---------
margin in lab-grown diamonds is relatively higher, which would be the key driver to improve profitability
Lab-grown diamonds are gaining immense popularity(cost-effective and eco-friendly, unlike naturally mined diamonds)
Goldiam has full backward integration capabilities, with an in-house design team that identifies the emerging fashion trends for manufacturing jewellery,


//Growth oppurtunities
The business has huge growth potential (currently it has < 5 percent of jewellery market)
Goldiam is focusing on the e-commerce platform to enable it to reach a larger section of retailers and reduce the dependence 
 on wholesalers. Apart from the enhanced reach, e-commerce has relatively higher margins and lower 
 working capital days (10-30 days as compared to 120-150 days for traditional sales channel)
 It has designed its own website, jewelfleet.com (B2B sales), on which consumers can directly place orders. 
 Also, Goldiam would display its products on the e-commerce sites of its customers (retailers who sell the jewellery to end consumers).
Goldiam is on a growth trajectory as it is aiming to introduce various jewellery styles in sync with the latest fashion and 
 further enhance its distribution presence in the key markets of the US and Europe.


//Moats
Among the few players with the patent for laboratory-manufacturing process.


--------- why you shouldn't hold the company? Business Weakness ----------
...


//Competettion



//Risks


--------- Financials -----------
//Financial strengths
margin improvement is on account of efficient raw material procurement and improved operating efficiencies
Also, the increasing share of e-commerce and sales through retail channel, which have lower marketing and distribution expenses 
 and have better terms of trade (significantly lower working capital requirement)
debt-free and carries on its business expansion through internal accruals.
announced buyback of shares, higher dividend payouts


//Financial weakness



--------- My filter check --------------



------- Valuation -----------
