 
 //Call and  Put options
 Call option delta behavior depends on whether the option is "in-the-money" (currently profitable), "at-the-money" (its strike price currently equals the underlying stock's price)
  or "out-of-the-money" (not currently profitable). In-the-money call options get closer to 1 as their expiration approaches. At-the-money call options typically have a delta of 0.5,
  and the delta of out-of-the-money call options approaches 0 as expiration nears. The deeper in-the-money the call option, the closer the delta will be to 1, and the more the option
  will behave like the underlying asset.
 call option is a hedge to stock/underlying asset INCREASE in bull market (bcoz if the underlying asset price increases u still have the option to buy at low prices) 
 put option is a hedge to stock/underlying asset DECREASE in bear market (bcoz if the underlying asset price decreases u still have the option to sell at high prices)
 

 //Factors That Affect a Put’s Price
 The exact Market price for the option would depend on a number of factors, the most important of which is the time remaining to expiration.
 option price = intrinsic value + extrinsic or time value
 In general, the value of a put option decreases as its time to expiration approaches because of the impact of time decay. Time decay accelerates as an option’s time to expiration draws 
   closer since there’s less time to realize a profit from the trade. 
 Option Intrinsic Value = Difference between Market Price of Underlying Security and Option Strike Price 
   For Put Option = Strike Price - Market Price of Underlying Security(put option intrinsic value increases as underlying asset value decreases) 
   For Call Option = Market Price of Underlying Security - Strike Price(call option intrinsic value increases as underlying asset value increases)
   If an option has intrinsic value, it is referred to as in the money (ITM).
  Out of the money (OTM) and at the money (ATM) put options have no intrinsic value because there is no benefit in exercising the option.
  In the Bear market Investors have the option of short-selling the stock at the current higher market price, rather than exercising an out-of-the-money put option at an undesirable strike price.
  But in the bull market short selling is typically riskier than buying put options( buy a put option and don't excercise the option, i.e forgo the premium (premium prices are covered
   because underlying asset increases in price ) if underlying stock price increases and if the underlying decreases in price u can excercise the option)
 Time value, or extrinsic value, is reflected in the premium of the option. If the strike price of a put option is $20, and the underlying is stock is currently trading at $19, there is $1
  of intrinsic value in the option. But the put option may trade for $1.35. The extra $0.35 is time value,
 
 //Alternatives to Exercising a Put Option
 The buyer of a put option does not need to hold an option until expiration. As the underlying stock price moves, the premium of the option will change to reflect the recent underlying
  price movements - this is the best option for speculative traders (instead of excersing a option by doing a short sale and then bearing commission costs , margin interest costs etc)
  For put option, if the underlying price is approaching or dropping below the strike price, then to avoid a big loss, the option writer may simply buy the option back (which gets them out
   of the position). The profit or loss is the difference between the premium collected and the premium paid to get out of the position.
  short selling has unlimited risk, margin account needed and interest to be paid for margin amount
  puts - limited risk (at max u will lose ur premium)