//factors
perfect squares - odd factors
others - even factors

//32 bit vs 64 bit
there exist two type processor i.e., 32-bit and 64-bit. These processor tells us how much memory a processor can have access from a CPU register
32 bits can refer max 2^32 bytes of memory addresses= 4GB RAM
any system having more than 4GB RAM should use 64 bit processor else RAM > 4GB gets watsed as the processor can't access it.
speed of computation: 64-bit processors can come in dual core, quad core, six core, and eight core versions

//compiler vs interpreters
interpreted code requires an interpreter to run. Therefore, without an interpreter, the source code serves as a plain text file rather than an executable program. 
executable file - code can be executed directly by the computer's processor, .exe(windows), .app(mac)
Additionally, programs written for an interpreter may not be able to use built-in system functions or access hardware resources like compiled programs can.
Therefore, most software applications are compiled rather than interpreted.
Also compiled code can be optimized before execution.

//bytecode vs assembly code
Both bytecode and assembly language  and  "intermediate languages" that fall between source code and machine code. 
The primary difference between the two is that bytecode is generated for a virtual machine (software), while assembly language is created for a CPU (hardware)
assembly language, machine code - generated specific to processor (platform dependent)
Assembly code can be converted to machine code using an assembler.

//ACID properties of database
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/acid-properties-in-dbms/
A transaction is a single logical unit of work which accesses and possibly modifies the contents of a database.
Atomicity - entire transaction takes place at once or doesn’t happen at all
Consistency - It refers to the correctness of a database  before and after the transaction
Isolation - Multiple Transactions occur independently without interference
Changes occurring in a particular transaction will not be visible to any other transaction until that particular change in that transaction is written to memory or has been committed
Durability - once the transaction has completed execution, the updates and modifications to the database are stored in and written to disk and they persist even if a system failure occurs.

//OS basics
process:
A program in execution is known as Process
Process memory consists of: stack+heap+data(global and static variables)+text(compiled code)
Thread: 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/thread-in-operating-system/
A thread is a path of execution within a process. A process can contain multiple threads.
Multithreading: achieve parallelism by dividing a process into multiple threads
threads within the same process run in a shared memory space, while processes run in separate memory spaces.
Threads are not independent of one another like processes and hence share code section, data section, and OS resources (like open files and signals)
But, like process, a thread has its own program counter (PC), register set, and stack space.
A program counter is a register in a computer processor that contains the address (location) of the instruction being executed at the current time.
paging:
Paging is a memory management scheme that eliminates the need for contiguous allocation of physical memory to a process
Logical Address or Virtual Address (represented in bits): An address generated by the CPU
The mapping from virtual to physical address is done by the memory management unit (MMU) which is a hardware device and this mapping is known as paging technique.
CPU scheduler:
It selects a process among the processes that are ready to execute and allocates CPU to one of them.
DEADLOCK:
A process in operating systems uses different resources and uses resources in following way.
1) Requests a resource
2) Use the resource
2) Releases the resource
It can be prevented by avoiding the necessary conditions for deadlock
**Deadlock can arise if following four conditions hold simultaneously (Necessary Conditions): 
Mutual Exclusion: One or more than one resource are non-sharable (Only one process can use at a time) 
Hold and Wait: A process is holding at least one resource and waiting for resources.
No Preemption: A resource cannot be taken from a process unless the process releases the resource.
Circular Wait: A set of processes are waiting for each other in circular form
STARVATION:
High priority processes keep executing and low priority processes are blocked for indefinite time
Resources are continuously utilized by high priority processes
It can be prevented by Aging. In Aging priority of long waiting processes is gradually increased.
kernel: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_(operating_system)
The kernel is a computer program at the core of a computer's operating system with complete control over everything in the system
A kernel is a interface between the applications(browser,audio and video player etc) and hardware of a computer.
2 types of kernels:
Monolithic kernel is a single large process running entirely in a single address space.
In microkernels, the kernel is broken down into separate processes, known as servers.
Some of the servers run in kernel space and some run in user-space. 

//CLI
https://www.taniarascia.com/how-to-use-the-command-line-for-apple-macos-and-linux/
commands in a terminal give instructions to kernel to perform tasks
bash commands/PowerShell commands let you manage computers from the command line
https://www.tecmint.com/linux-curl-command-examples/
curl command: to transfer data to or from a server, using any of the supported protocols (HTTP, FTP, IMAP, POP3, SCP, SFTP, SMTP, TFTP, TELNET, LDAP or FILE).
SSH: for establishing a secure channel connection to a server in a unsecured network for data tranfer.
in mac  it is inbuilt but in windows u need to install a software

//file system - controls how data is stored and retrieved.
/ Without a file system, data placed in a storage medium would 
be one large body of data with no way to tell where one piece of data stops and the next begins
/each group of data is called a "file". The structure and logic rules used to manage the groups of data and their names is called a "file system".
/RAM) is used to create a temporary file system for short-term use.
/different kinds of file systems. Each one has different structure and logic, properties of speed, flexibility, security, size and more
/diff storages: SSD(flash memory),HDD(magnetic storage), optical disks, magnetic tapes
/some files systems are apt for specific storages
local file system, network file system, virtual file system (creating files based on request)