dependency on semiconductors and steel
R&D heavy - need to do constant innovation
like supporting engines for petrol blended with ethanol,
disruptions - electrical vehicles , hydrogen fuel cell technology, hybrid fuel engines
Capex for manufacturing
But this is the second largest industry after housing industry
Possible Headwinds: 
Covid-19 pandemic
the rising input costs due to skyrocketing commodity prices
the supply-chain issues
coupled with chip shortages - Russia accounts for about 40% of the global production of palladium, a key raw material for chip 
  manufacturing. Ukraine accounts for 70% of the global production of neon gas, a critical component in chip production.


//Auto sector stats
In 2021, the number of electric vehicles sold was 3,24,840 units. The number of petrol and diesel vehicles sold stood at 18.3 
million units. This means that electric vehicles stood at around 1.7% of the total vehicles sold. Interestingly, this proportion 
 was at 0.7% in 2019 and 2020.
out of 1.7%(90% is by Tata Motors)

//Engine types
ICE(internal combustion engines) - diesel and petrol vehicles
Mild Hybrid - Engines that run efficiently if used with ethanol blended petrol 
BEV - fully electric
Fuel cell technlogy - green hydrogen
Hybrid - Mild Hybrid + BEV


//Ethanol
organic chemical compound, which is produced from feedstock (sugarcane, sugar, molasses, maize and damaged food grains, etc.), also 
blends with petrol and power vehicles.
why use Ethanol:
A reduction of import dependence on fossils, cost savings, lower emissions(Environment), cost (forex) and extra income for farmers
Ethanol is also a better-quality fuel due to its high-octane number, which enhances engine efficiency 
Govt wants E20 fuel (20 per cent ethanol, 80 per cent petrol), which reduces hydrocarbon effluents by 20 per cent (carbon monoxide by 30-50 per cent)
To meet this ambitious government target, the total ethanol capacity is required to be augmented by three times the capacity as of FY2021.


//Fuel cell EVs
Demand of Fuel Cell EVs to increase given Fuel Cells can
be refueled, which is considerably faster than recharging.
Green hydrogen and natural gas as fuels in fuel cells
pass current through water to separate hydrogen and oxygen (power generated should be from solare energy) else it doesn't make 
 any sense.
Dealing with green hydrogen needs lot of expertise which India doesn't have
Major countries in the world are considering to use this fuel as replacement to electric Vehicles or just another type of 
 clean vehicle


//EVs
Lithium Ion batteries - made of Lithium and cobalt
coblat is available everywhere in the world but 70% of world supply comes from Congo(Africa)
China controls almost all the metal supply chains

Maruti Suziki: By 2025 EVs will be available to premium market only
 Technology will be improved, but it will not be as good as that level that we can introduce a really affordable EV 
 as a small car. That will take more time beyond 2025.It takes a lot of time to really develop good technology for affordable small electric cars. 
  Secondly, charging infrastructure must also be developed enough to make affordable cars, as the number or size of batteries
   we put in a small car will have to be small; if we put bigger batteries, the cost will become high. To make this viable,
    more charging points must be available all over.


//Market share of Indian auto makers
Maruti Suzuki - 47.4 (In order to achieve a 50% market share, Maruti needs to be present in every single segment of the automotive 
 industry. Their presence in small cars and MPVs (multi-purpose vehicles) is very strong. SUVs are where Maruti lacks, introduction of 
 multiple models into the SUV space in a year or two will get maruti on track)
Hyundai - 17
Tata - 7.5
Kia - 7.3
Mahindra - 6.4
Renault - 3.6
Honda - 3.5
Toyota - 3.0