Flourine Industry:
//Flourine:
Highly reactive, but forms stable compounds
Small in size & less in weight
Availability: 12th most abundant element on earth
value migration from chorination and bromination to flourination - hence caters replacement demand

//Usage Industries:
1)Fluor specialty used in Agro, Pharma, Industrial, and other uses. High Margins
2)Fluoropolymers - Commodity-grade and value-added. Commoditized + High Margins in VAP
3)Inorganic Fluorides - Used in the steel and glass industry. Low Margins
4)Industrial chemicals like Chloromethane.
5)Pharma Propellent - Used in Metered Dose Inhalers as a propellant. Only SRF can make this.
6)CRAMS for Pharma - Navin is doing. High Margins

//Fluorinated organic compounds in   Agro chemical/Pharma:
22% of the drugs approved by the FDA in the last two decades contain at least one fluorine atom, on average
53% of pesticides introduced during 1998-2020 contain the fluorine atom.

//Flouro polymers in Electronics/Automobile: for insulation and coatings
Why flouro polymers?
Heat resistance, durability, and high strength are key properties to use the product in fire safety equipment in automobiles and aircraft.
Fluoropolymers Cater to all new age verticals like EV, Hydrogen Fuel Cells, semiconductors, 5G etc.
Fluoropolymers are the most convenient and superior material to manufacture green technology applications, from wind turbines to photovoltaic panels.

//Supply
Commodity Fluoropolymers are dominated by China and Value-added ones are with Western companies.
Market Share:
SRF - 36%
GFL - 34%
Navin - 20%
Others - 10%
1)Navin: commodity to value added like a butterfly
Decades of experience in flourine chemistry
Navin Fluorine's customers include premium A/C manufacturers such as LG, Samsung, Voltas and from other industries like Reliance, Piramal, Godrej etc.
products:
/Legacy business: ref gas and inorganic flourides
  not complete pricing power - as they are commodity and raw material is procured from other countries
/value added:
Navin Fluorine does contract manufacturing for Pharma innovators and has many biotechs as its clients
specialty chemicals (Intermediate + API)
Working on HPP(high performance product) Intermediates and HPP has water applications, this Opens up Fluoropolymers space for Navin Fluorine.
Working on a compound that can replace Lithium.
Electronic chemical applications focused on India market are likely emerging opportunities from FY25 onward - battery solutions, semiconductors, and solar industries.
Focus markets - India, Middle east
Focus Areas:  value added applications in agrochem, niche specialty applications, longterm focus on CRAMS
Huge Capex for all the above - funded via debt


2)SRF: SRF has created a significantly diversified business model with a focus on Ref Gas and fluoro-based intermediates /APIs along with packaging and technical textiles.
technical textiles - slow growth/no growth , but the cash is taken and deployed in packaging and chemical divison
packaging -  establishing plants near customers in abroad
  BOPET, BOPP films and aluminium films
chemicals: 
  i)ref gases - low cost producer in the world due to deep integration
    global warming causing gas is being phasedout and SRF has replacement developed and registered with west regulators
  ii)specialty chemicals (85% agrochem intermediates, 15% pharma intermediates)  
   Proxy play on agrochem intermediates
   contract manufacturing - ONLY indian player which has all agrochemical innovators as clients
   increasing usage of flourine in agro intermediates
   250 molecules in agro intermediates (70% dedicated plants , 30% multi purpose plants)
   Long term thinking - built capacity and became ready for the future where demand from innovators is low during 2015-2018
   climbing up the value chain from intermediates to APIs in agrochemals
   rampup capacity in  pharma intermediates
  iii)solvents - chlorine releated products, used mostly in industries
  iv)fluoropolymers - new capacity is added, but for experimental purpose - deep dive may be in next 3-4 yrs

SRF MOATS:
fully integrated operations both in flourine and chlorine chemistry
Tech know-how: ONLY indian player to do flourination in 8 ways whereas other folks are only able to do it 2 ways
process patents and a dedicated R&D team to get even more
multiple product patents
Large Capex is a entry barrier

3)GFL: 
Europe and US are key markets for GFL
85% value added products where Chinese presence is limited
India’s only Fluoropolymer producer and among the top few globally - Backward integration into all the major fluoropolymers
full vertical integration right from natural minerals to value-added Fluoropolymers, and strong R&D have been the cornerstones of our success.
Flourspar mine in Morocco  -  raw material for Fluoropolymer mined in house
Post FY25, the company anticipates significant CAPEX allocation to for battery chemicals and backward integration of essential chemicals.
integrated battery chemicals complex at Dahej - for the production of LiPF6, the most popular electrolyte salt for lithium-ion batteries.
Risk: future growth depends heavily on battery chemicals post FY25


//Entry Barriers
Flourine chemistry has become complex, only few have the capability to handle it
most reactive chemical compound - hence very difficult to manage