renewable biomass fuels such as bioethanol, bio-diesel, bio-hydrogen, etc., derived from sugarcane, corn, switchgrass, algae, etc.
Direct fermentation of sugars has advantages in production costs of ethanol, compared to processes that use starchy materials (corn)
 or lignocelluloses biomass as raw materials.
molasses : viscous, dark and sugar-rich by-product obtained during sugar extraction from the sugarcane
Molasses is defined as waste product of sugar industry of which further extraction of sugar is uneconomical, contains about 
 40– 50% fermentable sugars. Because of the ease with which this can be fermented into ethanol at low price made it 
 ideal for ethanol production


/ENA is the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages and it is derived from different 
sources - sugarcane molasses and grains. It is widely used in the production of alcoholic 
beverages such as whisky, vodka, gin, cane, liqueurs, and alcoholic fruit beverages.
/Extra-Neutral Alcohol (ENA) is an ethanol grade of 96% purity or higher. It's main use is as the base ingredient in the production
 of alcoholic spirits.
/Like ethanol, ENA is also a byproduct of the sugar industry and is formed from molasses, resulting from refining sugarcane or 
  sugar beets into sugar.


--------------------- ETHANOL ---------------------
//About:
Ethanol is a plant derivative
When ethanol complete combustion, it releases carbon dioxide and water.
Ethanol finds usage in auto(fuel), pharma, beverage and chemical industries, cosmetics, and industrial materials
At 95% purity, it is called rectified spirit and is used as the intoxicating ingredient in alcoholic beverages. 
At 99%-plus purity, ethanol is used for blending with petrol.

//Production Types:
For the production of ethanol, ethanol factories in India employ the following types of raw materials:
  1G - Based on sugarcane Juice OR molasses 
  2G - Materials of the second generation (biomass, mixed grain, and agricultural waste and Grain-based).

//Production Process:
All spirits go through at least two procedures - fermentation and distillation. 
Fermentation is where all alcohol is created (yeast or bacteria breaks down the sugar content in a substance in to alcohol + some by product)
Distillation is where the alcohol is separated and removed by boiling and then condensation, remaining water goes under treatment
  producing high value by-products
Sugar cane -> Bagasse + Sugar cane Juice -> Sugar + B heavy molasses -> Sugar + C heavy molasses(no sugar content left) ->
  Fermentation(for 24 hrs) -> Distillation -> Ethanol
Bagasse : dry pulpy fibrous material that remains after crushing sugarcane. It is used as a biofuel for the production of heat,
   energy, and electricity, and in the manufacture of pulp and building materials.
Cogeneration or combined heat and power is the use of a heat engine or power station to generate electricity and useful heat at the same time
The ‘C’ molasses roughly constitute 4.5% of the cane, and have a remaining TFS of 40%. After C-molasses are sent to the distillery,
 ethanol is extracted from them. Every 100 kg of TFS yields 60 litres of ethanol.
Mills can also produce only ethanol from sugarcane, without producing sugar at all. In this case, the entire 14% TFS in the cane 
 is fermented producing high quality Ethanol. Here, a mill can make 84 litres of ethanol and zero kg of sugar.
Sugar crystals can also be used to produce Ethanol (Sugar mills do this when sugar is excess)

//What Are The Advantages of Using Ethanol Fuel?
Ethanol has a higher octane rating than petrol which reduces engine knocking.
A high octane rating of 113, ethanol is a high-compression, high-performance fuel.
Ethanol contains more oxygen than petrol thereby burning cleaner and greener.
Ethanol as a fuel doesn’t break down and leaves fewer to no deposits.
Ethanol burns cleaner than petrol and has a cleansing effect on the fuel system.


--------------------- ETHANOL STATS ---------------------
Uttar Pradesh has emerged as the country's leading producer of ethanol, and 54 distilleries spread around the state generate a 
 total of 58 crore litres of ethanol.
US and Brazil produce 84 per cent of all ethanol production in the world 
In US ethanol is made from corn.
currently in India ethanol blending is 7.5% in petrol, target in 2025 - 20% (Brazil does 80% - 100% blending)
GST reduced from 18% to 5%, ban on blending imported ethanol in petrol
two major sugar producing states, i.e. U.P. and Maharashtra.
sugar & ethanol prices are market driven, but downfall in these prices is cushioned by the MSP declared by the GoI
government is empowered to fix the price paid to cane growers annually
government has made supplies profitable by raising ethanol prices every fiscal, in addition to differential pricing for B-Heavy 
  and the direct cane juice route and providing interest sops on loans for setting up ethanol-based distilleries.
Risk:  profitability remains vulnerable to the government’s policies on exports, MSP, and remunerative ethanol prices.