
Logistics: the movement/transportation of goods by different modes including air, ocean, rail, and road + warehousing (employees 
 pack the goods in inventory and dispatch/transport)
Logistics is a component of supply chain management
Freight: transporting products or goods via truck, van, or train
CARGO : goods carried by larger vehicles, such as large cargo ships and planes
Container:  20 feet to 40 feet-long metal boxes made of a special category of steel, where cargo is placed inside


//AIRLINES - fastest but costlier

//SHIP - cheapest and greenest, huge capacity saving lot of money and time
maritime shipping today accounts for 95% of the export-import (EXIM) trade in the world. 
60% is through containers
biggest container ships can carry as many as 23,000 containers, but a train in India can carry only 90 containers and a
 truck or a trailer can take only one.

**COVID and Russian war supplychain issues
1)Unavaialability or shortage of containers
One reason why Indian traders and exporters have suffered is high dependence on foreign vessels for transporting container cargo.
Lot of containers fullly loaded with cargo were not allowed to unload becuase of COVID rules
We have tankers, gas carriers, and LNG vessels. But we have a very negligible investment in our own container fleet
 Shipping companies have not invested in expanding their container fleet because of unfavorable government policies
2)lack of demand + sky high logistics prices => forced small exporters to lose their business to large players
3)Lot of time taken because of port congestion, COVID checks, lot of containers stuck in warehouses
4)paucity of warehousing space
5)price of logistics sky rocketted due because of supply demand misatch
 shipping companies charged a bomb even for lesser distances
 fuel prices increased - russia ukraine war

**Consolidation in the shipping market:
Twenty-five years ago, the top 20 companies controlled about half of the global capacity.
only 10 container lines based in Asia and Europe, including Maersk, MSC, France’s CMA CGM SA, and China’s Cosco Shipping Holdings,
 control nearly 85% of the capacity for shipping goods by sea.

**PORTS
congestion at ports have worsened things - adding fuel to fire
 Even though shipping companies has added capacity throughout the year, but that hasn’t helped ease supply chains because ships 
 are stuck waiting outside ports.
port - which is a man-made facility built for loading and unloading vessels and dropping off and picking up passengers. Ports 
  usually include one or more harbors.
A harbor is any sheltered body of water where boats or ships may moor or anchor. A port is an installation that has been built
  around a harbor with facilities for loading and unloading such vessels. 

//RAILWAYS
//ROAD