
Logistics: the movement/transportation of goods by different modes including air, ocean, rail, and road + warehousing (employees 
 pack the goods in inventory and dispatch/transport)
Logistics is a component of supply chain management (SCM spans from raw material to customer delivery, including sourcing from 
 suppliers, manufacturing, transportation and warehousing, distribution, wholesale, retail, consumer)
Freight: transporting products or goods via truck, van, or train
CARGO : goods carried by larger vehicles, such as large cargo ships and planes
Container:  20 feet to 40 feet-long metal boxes made of a special category of steel, where cargo is placed inside
The overall logistics cost is about 14% of GDP, significantly higher than that of many other countries.
India wants to bring it down to < 10% of GDP by building multi-modal logistics parks (MMLPs) 

//AIRLINES - fastest but costlier

//SHIP - cheapest and greenest, huge capacity saving lot of money and time
maritime shipping today accounts for 95% of the export-import (EXIM) trade in the world. 
60% is through containers
biggest container ships can carry as many as 23,000 containers, but a train in India can carry only 90 containers and a
 truck or a trailer can take only one.

**COVID and Russian war supplychain issues
1)Unavaialability or shortage of containers
One reason why Indian traders and exporters have suffered is high dependence on foreign vessels for transporting container cargo.
Lot of containers fullly loaded with cargo were not allowed to unload becuase of COVID rules
We have tankers, gas carriers, and LNG vessels. But we have a very negligible investment in our own container fleet
 Shipping companies have not invested in expanding their container fleet because of unfavorable government policies
2)lack of demand + sky high logistics prices => forced small exporters to lose their business to large players
3)Lot of time taken because of port congestion, COVID checks, lot of containers stuck in warehouses
4)paucity of warehousing space
5)price of logistics sky rocketted due because of supply demand misatch
 shipping companies charged a bomb even for lesser distances
 fuel prices increased - russia ukraine war

**Consolidation in the shipping market:
Twenty-five years ago, the top 20 companies controlled about half of the global capacity.
only 10 container lines based in Asia and Europe, including Maersk, MSC, France’s CMA CGM SA, and China’s Cosco Shipping Holdings,
 control nearly 85% of the capacity for shipping goods by sea.

**PORTS
congestion at ports have worsened things - adding fuel to fire
 Even though shipping companies has added capacity throughout the year, but that hasn’t helped ease supply chains because ships 
 are stuck waiting outside ports.
port - which is a man-made facility built for loading and unloading vessels and dropping off and picking up passengers. Ports 
  usually include one or more harbors.
A harbor is any sheltered body of water where boats or ships may moor or anchor. A port is an installation that has been built
  around a harbor with facilities for loading and unloading such vessels. 
Shipyard - A shipyard is a place where ships are built and repaired. These can be yachts, military vessels, cruise liners or 
  other cargo or passenger ships.
Dockyard - mostly associated with repairing and maintaining ships
//stats
The total 200 major and non-major ports.
95 per cent of India's trading by volume and 68 per cent by value is done through maritime transport. It is serviced by 13 
 major ports (12 Government-owned and one private) and 187 notified minor and intermediate ports. 
maritime transport is to be administered by both the Central and the State governments. While the central government's 
shipping ministry administers the major ports, the minor and intermediate ports are administered by the relevant departments 
or ministries in the nine coastal states
187 minor and intermediate ports have been identified by the respective governments to be developed, in a phased manner, 
 a good proportion of them involving public–private partnership.


//RAILWAYS & ROAD
50% lesser cost compared to roadways, but still 3/4 th of freight in india goes via roads due to lack of infra

//MMLPs - multi modal logistics parks
-- what are they?
These are large land parcels with rail, port & road connectivity, where goods coming in get seamlessly transferred to trains and
  other modes of transport in a hub-and-spoke model (versus point-to-point movement of goods)
The parks will also offer mechanized warehousing services ( for example, cold chains are available for storing perishables, 
 racked warehousing facilities are available for packages and apparel )
MMLPs will also include various value-added services, including labelling, packaging, tagging and crating, customs 
 clearance (which currently happens at sea ports for export consignments), thereby offering so much at a single location
proposal to connect them to the upcoming dedicated freight corridors (since railways will build infrastructure inside the park)

-- working
freight from production zones will be shipped to nearby logistics parks, where it will be aggregated and shipped on a larger 
 vehicle (either large truck or cargo rail) to a logistics park near the consumption zone.
Then, the freight arriving at the destination logistics park will be disaggregated and distributed to the consumption zones 
 inside the city.
This reduces cost bcoz warehouse costs, transportation costs are being shared among all goods producers

-- how many MMLPs and how will they be built?
 35 such parks the government wants to build under the public private partnership (PPP) mode.
 The government will invest ₹26,000 crore and the private developers will bring in a similar amount ( ₹26,500 crore)
 bidding process for three MMLPs (which are currently at a stage where bids can be invited - Chennai, Bangalore, Indore and remaining 
  MMLP locations are being finalised.
 adani ports is a strong bidder along with international player
 The National Highways Logistics Management (NHLML), a wholly owned special purpose vehicle (SPV) of the National Highways 
  Authority of India (NHAI), is the nodal agency for getting the 35 MMLPs up and running
 //state govt and NHLML responsibilty
  state govt buys the land and the private investor is given the land on a 45-year lease.
  External power and water supply connections
  rail connectivity and roads within and from the parks
  However Soaring fuel and land prices are barriers
 //private player responsibilty
  first phase, which is to be completed within 2 years from the award of the concession, the private developer must bring in 
    at least 30% of the promised investment and the MMLP should have begun commercial operations. 
  The second phase can be completed within 10 years and by then, investment should be at least 60% of the committed sum. 
  The third phase would be completed in 15 years, marking the end of the project.


