//About
While semiconductors is still a commodity business at heart, its end markets are so numerous—PCs, communications infrastructure, 
 automotive, consumer products, etc.
Found in thousands of electronic products, a semiconductor is a material that conducts electricity more than an insulator
  but less than a pure conductor.
The semiconductor industry lives—and dies by a simple creed: smaller, faster, and cheaper.
display a range of useful properties such as showing variable resistance, passing current more easily in one direction than 
   the other, and reacting to light and heat.

Broadly speaking, semiconductors fall into 4 main product categories:
1)Memory chips - temporary storehouses of data and pass information to and from computer devices' brains(memory prices are reducing rapidly)
2)Microprocessors - contain the basic logic to perform tasks (Intel and AMD dominate)
3)Integrated Circuit - produced in huge batches for routine processing purposes. Dominated by very large Asian chip manufacturers,
  this segment offers razor-thin profit margins that only the biggest semiconductor companies can compete for.
4)"System on a Chip" is essentially all about the creation of an integrated circuit chip with an entire system's capability on it. 
SOC segment is arguably the only one left with enough opportunity to attract a wide range of companies.


Success in the semiconductor industry depends on creating smaller, faster, and cheaper products.
Moore's Law states that we can expect the speed and capability of our computers to increase every couple of years, and we will pay less for them.
new technologies lower the cost of production per chip so that within a matter of months, the price of a new chip might fall 50%.
There is constant pressure on chip makers/manufacturers to come up with something better and even cheaper than what defined 
 state-of-the-art only a few months before. Therefore, semiconductor companies need to maintain large R&D budgets.
Hence many semiconductor companies carry out design and marketing but choose to outsource some or all of the manufacturing.
  This is bcoz of the expensive manufacturing(or fabrication) process involved
since it is a B2B market/industry the game is played on price rather than value
It takes years to develop a chip or build a foundry(manufacturing/fabrication plant), and even longer before the products make money.

//Stats
Global market size: 483 billion USD (2022), 900 billion USD (2027)
growth drivers: more use of electronic devices, advanced tech like IOT, AI , ML in devices 

//Requirements of semiconductor chips production
Requires lot of water and electricity
If you have any dirt on your chips, your chips will not work. You have to make them in a very clean environment 
lot of capex investment is needed because of the cost of manufacturing machines
Ukraine provides - critical gases like neon
Russia provides - palladium metal
Netherlands - only country having chip machine manufacturers that develops and sells machinery and other products used to 
  design and test semiconductors.
  ASML  - lithography technology is fundamental to mass producing semiconductor chips.
South korea and Taiwan - largest chip manufacturers globally
only five countries supply chips: China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, the European Union, and the United States.
Semiconductors are Korea's largest export. However, most of that is memory products, NAND Flash, and DRAM memory
