How to identify Great businesses? 
Every company is like an empire which has economic moats.
Economic MOATS - strengths that are not easy to break by competitors / market trends/ public choice or decision/Govt intervention


//All possible MOATs
1)low cost production:
value of the product should be less compared to overall expenditure of a person/family then only customer pays premium because 
 the product cost is less compared to their salary/spending
made for a penny, sold for a dollar and customer loyalty is high(customer keeps coming)
 Does the company have economies of scale? bcoz low lost seller needs to have this else the profits will take a hit
 ECONOMIES OF SCALE: it is the ability of the firm to leverage its fixed cost infrastructure across various clients
 operating leverage of the firm increases because of this ability.(check in profit loss statement last line - tijori )
 operating leverage is 3 => if revenues grow by x then operating income grows  by 3x (not net income)
 Note: if operating leverage is very high because of fixed costs company can be wildly profitable and can also be bankrupt(check debt
  levels, especially interest wrt operating profit)
 so companies with high operating leverages must focus on revenue increase and capturing market share
New companies cannot break this moat bcoz they will be in loss
2)Brand - there should be trust in the public
Breakable? -takes many years to build
Real product differentiation - i.e products are more popular => but constant innovation is needed and lot of cash is sucked up
Percieved product differentiation - Brand name itself is enough people are ready to pay premium
3)distribution network -  should have wide geographical presence - so that it can cater to wide audience across the country/globe
4)R&D negligible- bcoz if more is spent on R&D and people don’t like the products or if any competitor comes up with more exciting products money spent on R&D gets wasted.
Instead this money could have reinvested and compounding effect is achieved
5)Taste - making people habituated with taste
Examples: cococola, Britannia, oreo, amul icecream and most of the FMCG or F&B businesses
for competitors to break this or overcome this hurdle is nearly impossible.
Hence they start negative publicity
6)high entry bariers like high capex, highly skill needed, complex operations ,heavy machinery operations,
 not easy to start/replace/maintain, high govt regulations
7) B2B MOATS:
is the switching cost > benifits of new products?
products tightly integrated into customers business?
is there any long term contract?
does the customers staff needs training for new products usage?
8)Luxury/Premium range: People are ready to pay premium because the value addition is huge compared to the price - mostly rich 
 people and businesses focus on it (like apple, Luxury furniture, Experiences etc)