//what to do when stock price is falling:
Golden fact: Sometimes fundamentals and stock price move in opposite direction for short term
1)stock price falls when people are selling stocks heavily(reasons can be varied like -ve sentiment, predictions, opinions, news, 
macroeconomy concerns,year end tax selling  etc - we don't care about all these unless it drastically impacts the business, we only 
care about FUNDAMENTALS and if they detoriorate then we need to take a call)
US yr end tax selling: nov - dec
Indian yr end tax selling: feb - march.
2)what if people sell bcoz of issues in Fundamentals , i.e Earnings/Earning Potential?
  Internal factors: temporary problem(can be a buy oppurtunity), permanent problem (skip), if difficult to decide the nature of
   the problem then wait and watch/monitor news etc
  External factors: then proceed with screening
  Note: There is stock and there is business behind stock(understand the business)
  you cannot determine what's going on in the business based on share price, share price should be used to determine the gap
    between intrinsic value and the selling price. 
  Regarding business always consider you are buying the whole business and not share of a company 
3)check promoter shareholding pattern trend in tijori

-------------------- BASIC CHECK ----------------------

2)Year end tax selling?

3)check valuations(Price/FCF < 15 (check cash as well), PE, PEG, EV/EBITDA, PB))
  US stocks: Vested (ratios section) - extreme bottom
  Indian Stocks - screener top section
4)check Intrinsic value: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nKjmPeIAiBJj7I_hbipXbBysa4ZhoK9qVxh6spmKejo/edit#gid=0


-------------------- DEEP CHECK ----------------------
1)EPS/FCF DECREASING (Valuation remains same )
--EPS decreasing (net income down)
   is it a short term phenomenon/long term hit? can be a turnaround oppurtunity if the earnings are temporarily down 
   and has the potential to rebound
--EPS decreasing (number of outstanding shares increased due to recent raise in equity capital)
   what does the company plan to do with capital raised? reinvest in current business(must reinvest in a profitable business only), 
   increase operating efficiency, new investment/growth oppurtunities, new business expansion
2)EPS/FCF INCREASING (Valuation is cheap) - potential BUY
--EPS increasing (net income increasing)
--EPS increasing (share buyback)
3)EPS/FCF IS ALMOST CONSTANT - but PE is down due to some reasons
  what is that reason? google it or exchange fillings
4)why did you buy the stock? - go through the story
   did the story/fundamentals change? if it significantly changed/impacted then you can sell
5)Check if it is a value trap: 
 what is a value trap? stock available at low price but it might stay there for few years OR it might decrease further
 how to identify: low quality business available at reasonable valuation like a company with ROCE > 12% , good market share but no
   pricing power available at 5 time FCF. Instead buy a company with ROCE > 10% , decent market share but has pricing power and 
   available at 10-15 times FCF
6)do you really believe in the stock and have the courage to hold if stock falls further?
i.e can you put 25% of your net worth and forget about it for next 10 yrs in a stock?

