
//DDL(Data Definition Language) vs DML(Data Manipulation Language)
DDL statements are used to create database, schema, constraints, users, tables etc. 
 DDL has no further classification.
 Commands: CREATE, DROP, RENAME and ALTER.
DML statement is used to insert, update or delete the records.
 DML is further classified into procedural DML and non-procedural DML
 commands: INSERT, UPDATE and DELETE.


//ACID properties of database
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/acid-properties-in-dbms/
A transaction is a single logical unit of work which accesses and possibly modifies the contents of a database.
Atomicity - entire transaction takes place at once or doesn’t happen at all
Consistency - It refers to the correctness of a database  before and after the transaction
Isolation - Multiple Transactions occur independently without interference
Changes occurring in a particular transaction will not be visible to any other transaction until that particular change in that transaction is written to memory or has been committed
Durability - once the transaction has completed execution, the updates and modifications to the database are stored in and written to disk and they persist even if a system failure occurs.

//mongodb vs sql
*SQL : 
predefined schemas 
structured data(all of your data must follow the same structure)
data stored in table format
vertically scalable, which means that you can increase the load on a single server by increasing things like CPU, RAM or SSD
SQL databases follow ACID properties (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation and Durability)
SQL databases examples MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, and Microsoft SQL Server. 
use case: complex queries, transaction data storage (accounting system), extensive delete and update operations

*NoSQL databases : 
dynamic schemas 
unstructured data 
store data in document-based, key-value pairs, graph databases or wide-column stores.
horizontally scalable. This means that you handle more traffic by sharding, or adding more servers in your NoSQL database.
NoSQL database follows the Brewers CAP theorem (Consistency, Availability and Partition tolerance).
NoSQL database examples include MongoDB, BigTable, Redis, RavenDB Cassandra and CouchDB
use case: large or ever-changing data sets(analytics data), hierarchical data storage, extensive insertion
and read operations

//in-memory database - fast manipulaion, updation
An in-memory database(Redis) is a database management system that primarily relies on main memory for 
computer data storage. It is contrasted with database management systems that employ a disk storage mechanism

//database sharding
partitioning db based on location/timestamp etc so that the lookup is fast
on top of it apply indexing so that u can use binary search and reduce the time even further
