dependency on semiconductors and steel
R&D heavy - need to do constant innovation
like supporting engines for petrol blended with ethanol,
disruptions - electrical vehicles , hydrogen fuel cell technology, hybrid fuel engines
Capex for manufacturing
But this is the second largest industry after housing industry

//Possible Headwinds: 
Covid-19 pandemic
the rising input costs due to skyrocketing commodity prices
the supply-chain issues
coupled with chip shortages - Russia accounts for about 40% of the global production of palladium, a key raw material for chip 
  manufacturing. Ukraine accounts for 70% of the global production of neon gas, a critical component in chip production.
semiconductor problems


//Auto sector stats
In 2021, the number of electric vehicles sold was 3,24,840 units. The number of petrol and diesel vehicles sold stood at 18.3 
million units. This means that electric vehicles stood at around 1.7% of the total vehicles sold. Interestingly, this proportion 
 was at 0.7% in 2019 and 2020.
out of 1.7%(90% is by Tata Motors)
China is phasing out oil & gas cars by 2035 and it wants to dominate the Global EV market - given the govt push and incentives 
  it is on the right path to achieve this


//Engine vehicles
Engine converts fuel to Mechanical energy via combustion
Motor converts electricity to Mechanical energy 
ICE(internal combustion engines) - diesel and petrol vehicles
Mild Hybrid - Engines that run efficiently if used with ethanol blended petrol 

//Motor vehicles
BEV - fully electric 
Fuel cell technlogy - green hydrogen
Hybrid - Mild Hybrid + BEV


//Ethanol
organic chemical compound, which is produced from feedstock (sugarcane, sugar, molasses, maize and damaged food grains, etc.), also 
blends with petrol and power vehicles.
why use Ethanol:
A reduction of import dependence on fossils, cost savings, lower emissions(Environment), cost (forex) and extra income for farmers
Ethanol is also a better-quality fuel due to its high-octane number, which enhances engine efficiency 
Govt wants E20 fuel (20 per cent ethanol, 80 per cent petrol), which reduces hydrocarbon effluents by 20 per cent (carbon monoxide by 30-50 per cent)
To meet this ambitious government target, the total ethanol capacity is required to be augmented by three times the capacity as of FY2021.


//Battery EVs
Lithium Ion batteries - made of Lithium, nickel, cobalt, Graphite & copper (which are harmful materials they can't go in landfills)
All the above materials are abdundantly available , however their extraction and refining process is not environmental, not human 
  friendly and it is not cost efficient
Lithium is like blood in the batteries ( also called white Gold and looks like salt)

--why Lithum ?
the lightest metal in the world. So it makes the batteries relatively lighter too. It won’t weigh down a car. It can also pack lots 
of energy in less space. While a typical lead-acid battery stores only 25 watt-hours (Wh) of energy per kg, lithium-ion batteries
 pack 150Wh per kg. They also last much longer than other batteries and can live through multiple charge cycles

--production process ?
 in order to get the metal, minors first pump the lithium-rich saltwater or brine from underground onto the surface. They let it 
 evaporate and harvest the lithium from that. Pumping and washing these deposits needs a lot of water too. 
 It takes 2,000 tons of water to produce 1 ton of lithium.

Lithium is the anode , cathode keeps changing to achieve stability and range
95% of lithium ion  battery materials are recycled & used in new batteries in the US
cost is very high due to battery costs - bcoz of supply chain costs of battery materials
mined in areas like Africa, Australia, Indonesia & sent to China for refining and travelling back to US for battery manufacturing
mining is not environmental friendly so recycling is the most important thing that needs to be done
US has just 1% Lithium being mined & processed in the country - bcoz cost of importing is cheaper than production
80% raw lithium is mined in Chile , China, Argentina and Australia (China doesn't own monopoly)
2 ways of lithium production - mining, evaporation (green way)
Cobalt free batteries - are the future
coblat is available everywhere in the world but 70% of world supply comes from Congo(Africa) and controlled by china
80% cobalt refining is controlled by china

// Lithium iron phospate(LFP) batteries - these cobalt free batteries controlled by BYD and CATL
but the range is low due to less density
however these materials  are readily available than nickel and cobalt, much more stable and the cost is way lesser 
Nickel is highly reactive with electrolyte so cobalt is added to minimise the degradation of cathode structure  
But for longer range and performance Nickel is still used
LFP batteries are also safe bcoz iron is stable element 


//Improvement to LFP - range increase by increasing density
There are also talks to replace liquid electrolyte with  solid electrolyte - to achieve high range and safety
cathode material replacement by using Nickel + other metals that provide more stability to Nickel
all these improvements can increase ur density to 4X

//Why China Leads EV market Globally?
China controls 50%  of lithium mining & processing
3/4 of Lithium ion megafactories in the world are in China
Japan, Korea and China account for 95% of battery production in the world, China alone controls 60%
Apart from Tesla , battery manufacturing in the US is almost non-existent
Govt push and incentives to buyers, suppliers and automakers
China has 5X charging stations compared to US
Heavy investments in the field of EVs make China at the top
Tesla was very successful in China

//why Volkswagen is dominating Tesla in Europe?
early entry in to european electric vehicle market
electric vehicles with short ranges tailored specifically for Europe - beating Tesla on price 
However Tesla is coming up with a giga factory in Berlin , eliminating its import & logistics cost
Brand power - VW group(AUDI, Skoda, Bentley, Porsche)  is largely popular in Europe, so customers can find EVs in Luxury , 
  Sports & SUV segments

Challenges in India:
Cost : 40% dedicated to batteries - bcoz Lithium, Cobolt extraction and processing is costly
Lack of Lthium batteries recycle/decompose infra - currently only 5% Batteries are recycled
No of EV charging stations: 2000 (Petrol Bunks: 80,000)
Battery charging time is roughly 1 hr (lot of waiting in the stations) 
Fast charging can be a solution but that will degrade the battery life much faster, so battery swapping is the sustainable way 
  of doing it but there is no standard battery specifications as such - it can't be enforced in the near future because
  it will curb the innovation of auto makers

Electricity is need to charge batteries - India's 70% power production comes from Coal 


//Fuel cell EVs
Demand of Fuel Cell EVs to increase given Fuel Cells can
be refueled, which is considerably faster than recharging.
Green hydrogen and natural gas as fuels in fuel cells
pass current through water to separate hydrogen and oxygen (power generated should be from solare energy) else it doesn't make 
 any sense.
Dealing with green hydrogen needs lot of expertise which India doesn't have
Major countries in the world are considering to use this fuel as replacement to electric Vehicles or just another type of 
 clean vehicle

//Alunium air batteries 
much more efficient but needs a lot of R&D and testing to kickstart
Aluminium–air batteries produce electricity from the reaction of oxygen in the air with aluminium. They 
 have one of the highest energy densities of all batteries, but they are not widely used because of problems with high anode cost 
 and byproduct removal when using traditional electrolytes.

Maruti Suziki: By 2025 EVs will be available to premium market only
 Technology will be improved, but it will not be as good as that level that we can introduce a really affordable EV 
 as a small car. That will take more time beyond 2025.It takes a lot of time to really develop good technology for affordable small electric cars. 
  Secondly, charging infrastructure must also be developed enough to make affordable cars, as the number or size of batteries
   we put in a small car will have to be small; if we put bigger batteries, the cost will become high. To make this viable,
    more charging points must be available all over.


//Market share of Indian auto makers
Maruti Suzuki - 47.4 (In order to achieve a 50% market share, Maruti needs to be present in every single segment of the automotive 
 industry. Their presence in small cars and MPVs (multi-purpose vehicles) is very strong. SUVs are where Maruti lacks, introduction of 
 multiple models into the SUV space in a year or two will get maruti on track)
Hyundai - 17
Tata - 7.5
Kia - 7.3
Mahindra - 6.4
Renault - 3.6
Honda - 3.5
Toyota - 3.0