2500+  Clients Served in 40+ countries 
carbon credit is a tradeable certificate which represents the right to emit greenhouse gases equivalent to one ton of carbon dioxide
Companies or nations are allotted a certain number of credits and may trade them to help balance total worldwide emissions
Each country then divides its quotas assigning them to local businesses and organizations
Carbon Credits are bought, on a voluntary basis, by any country or company interested in lowering its carbon footprint.
The intention is to reduce the number of credits over time, thus incentivizing companies to find innovative ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Carbon credits create a monetary incentive for companies to reduce their carbon emissions as they can sell any excess to another company.
Those that cannot easily reduce emissions can still operate, at a higher financial cost

//Worldwide Carbon Credit Initiatives
The Kyoto Protocol divided countries into industrialized and developing economies. 
If a country emitted less than its target amount of hydrocarbons,  it could sell its surplus credits to other countries.

The separate Clean Development Mechanism for developing countries issued carbon credits called a Certified Emission Reduction (CER).
A developing nation could receive these credits for supporting sustainable development initiatives. The trading of CERs took place 
in a separate market.

2015 Paris Agreement, allowing nations to work toward their climate targets by buying offset credits that represent emission
 reductions by other countries.


-ves:
no value addition by the company , it just acts as a middleman between carbon credit acquiring & generating company
local contracts
Negotiators at the Glasgow COP26 climate change summit in November 2021 agreed to create a global carbon credit offset trading market.
-ve economics : carbon credits supply will decrease over time (and demand increases, the company generating them will have pricing 
  power and not EKI)
huge competettion is expected to come given the oppurtunities & asset light business model
if countries dropout like US did in 2001, then there will be existential risk for the company - hence carbon credit concept itself 
  will be eliminated
it can happen that it is more economic to pay a fine than to buy Carbon Credits due to their high price - again price play here
