1)CDN - caching web content like html/css/js/image/video/audio files caching
*A CDN (Content Delivery Network) is a highly-distributed platform of servers that helps minimize delays 
in loading web page content by reducing the physical distance between the server and the user.
*load balancing - Without a CDN, content origin servers must respond to every single end user request
*request proxy - when content is unavailable or stale, the CDN will act as a request proxy to the origin server and store the fetched content to serve future requests.
* Potentially any data that can be digitized can be delivered through a CDN (video,audio,apps,games etc)


2)leverage browser caching using http cache control headers
Cache-Control: no-cache ( It means ask the server if new content is available, and if so, download it. Otherwise, use what you have cached)
However no-cache by itself won’t do much for us unless we define how the server will validate the cached resource.
By setting up Etag support on the server , it can now validate the resources cached by the browser
Server configuration: ETags (Etags are implemented through checksums computed on the content of a file)
If your server configuration does not allow for ETags, then you should switch to having browsers never cache the index.html file. 
This can be done by leveraging the no-store cache control directive instead of no-cache.


//leverage versioning for each resource to improve our caching strategy - but frequent change of index.html is required
Each change made in the source code results in a newly generated Javascript or CSS file. 
Thus, our index.html file should be updated to point to the new resources. Once the index.html file 
is updated, all clients would now only download our new Javascript and CSS files.

//most effective - no change in file name and no change in index.html
Cache-control: max-age=N" directive is used to check the freshness
if there is a Cache-Control header with the max-age directive in the response, the Expires header is ignored.
The Expires header contains the date/time after which the response is considered stale

3)service worker -  cache api 
*cache only
*network only - analytics pings and non - GET requests
*cache falling back to network 
*Network falling back to the cache - online users get the most up-to-date content, and offline users get an 
older cached version network falling back to cache 
*cache then network - one to the cache, and one to the network. The idea is to show the cached data first,
then update the page when/if the network data arrives 
If you fail to serve something from the cache and network you may want to provide a generic fallback - 
e.g for POST requests during offline

4)browser storage - indexed db, local storage
