
How Computers Work: The CPU and Memory
https://homepage.cs.uri.edu/faculty/wolfe/book/Readings/Reading04.htm
CPU itself has following three components.
1)Memory or Storage Unit -
This unit can store instructions, data, and intermediate results. This unit supplies information to other units of the computer
 when needed. It is also known as internal storage unit or the main memory or the primary storage or Random Access Memory (RAM).
/payroll program uses all three types of storage - Suppose the program calculates the salary of an employee. 
The data representing the hours worked and the data for the rate of pay are ready in their respective registers.
Other data related to the salary calculation-overtime hours, bonuses, deductions, and so forth-is waiting nearby in memory. 
The data for other employees is available in secondary storage. As the CPU finishes calculations about one employee,
the data about the next employee is brought from secondary storage into memory and eventually into the registers.
2)Control Unit - 
the control unit does not execute program instructions; rather, it directs other parts of the system to do so. 
The control unit communicates b/w arithmetic/logic unit and memory, input device and memory
Registers are temporary storage areas for instructions or data. They are not a part of memory; rather they are special additional 
storage locations that offer the advantage of speed. Registers work under the direction of the control unit
Computers usually assign special roles to certain registers, including these registers:
An accumulator, which collects the result of computations.
An address register, which keeps track of where a given instruction or piece of data is stored in memory. Each storage location in memory is identified by an address, just as each house on a street has an address.
A storage register, which temporarily holds data taken from or about to be sent to memory.
A general-purpose register, which is used for several functions.
3)ALU(Arithmetic Logic Unit) - consists of two subsections namely, 
Arithmetic Section: perform arithmetic operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.
All complex operations are done by making repetitive use of the above operations.
Logic Section: perform logic operations such as comparing, selecting, matching, and merging of data.


//How the CPU Executes Program Instructions - In fact, most computers today can execute only one instruction at a time, though they execute it very quickly. 
The Machine Cycle:
Before an instruction can be executed, program instructions and data must be placed into memory from an input device or a 
secondary storage device (the process is further complicated by the fact that, as we noted earlier, the data will probably 
make a temporary stop in a register). once the necessary data and instruction are in memory, CPU performs the following 4 steps for each instruction:
The control unit fetches (gets) the instruction from memory.
The control unit decodes the instruction (decides what it means) and directs that the necessary data be moved from memory to the arithmetic/logic unit. These first two steps together are called instruction time, or I-time.
The arithmetic/logic unit executes the arithmetic or logical instruction. That is, the ALU is given control and performs the actual operation on the data.
Thc arithmetic/logic unit stores the result of this operation in memory or in a register. Steps 3 and 4 together are called execution time, or E-time.

The control unit eventually directs memory to release the result to an output device or a secondary storage device. The combination of I-time and E-time is called the machine cycle.